# Insert Queries 09/20/19

## Overview
Goal is to write my first query that inserts into multiple tables: 
- User submits a review, review can contain multiple photos and characteristic ratings that are stored in other tables.

## Links
Postgres Default Values: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-default.html

## Initial Plan
I'm going to start by writing the query to just insert into the review table since photos and characteristics are considered optional data. Once I can succesfully insert data into the review table, I'll attempt to insert data for photos. After that is working, I'll add characteristic ratings.

## Problem 1 - No Default Values
I don't have default values set for optional columns or columns that aren't set by the user (e.g. date needs to be autopopulated with the current date).
I need to alter the existing table structure without dropping my data and also update my schema creation file so that when I regenerate the db from scratch default values are already configured.

Solution for Unique IDs: 
Below command worked to generate new unique id for existing data. For now I've put this in my db creation file to run after my data is copied, but I think I still think setting a default value somehow might be more effecient.


```SQL
select setval(pg_get_serial_sequence('review', 'id'), max(id)) from review;
```

## Problem 2 - Dynamic Insertion from Array
I need to insert multiple rows based on a dynamic number of photos that could be submitted with a review (0 - 5).

### Attempt 1: 
- Tried using EXECUTE with format syntax
- Error 42601	syntax_error

### Attempt 2:
- Tried using unnest with hard coded array values
- Error 08P01	protocol_violation
- error: bind message supplies 2 parameters, but prepared statement "" requires 1
- Apparently if you have two values and don't use one of them you get an error

```js
  insertPhotos: (reviewId = 3, photoURLs = ['one', 'two', 'three']) => (
    {
      text: `INSERT INTO reviews_photos (review_id, photo_url)
        VALUES ($1, unnest(array['one', 'two', 'three']))
        RETURNING id`,
      values: [reviewId, photoURLs],
    }
  ),
  ```

  ### Attempt 3:
  - Same as before, remove photoURLs from values
  - Error 23505 unique_violation
  - Suprise, forgot to run command for making ids increment correctly on this table

  ### Attempt 4:
  - Same as before after running command to set sequence for table
  - RESULT: GET BACK THREE IDS! WIN! THREE RECORDS CREATED!!
  - Now I have a new problem because photo urls are hard coded

  ### SUCCESS
  - Made a function to dynamically build array parameters based on length of array

  Looks like this:
```js
    insertPhotos: (reviewId, photoURLs) => {
    // Build array params (ex: 3 elements returns $2, $3, $4)
    const arrayParams = photoURLs.map((value, index) => `$${index + 2}`)
      .join();

    return (
      {
        text: `INSERT INTO reviews_photos (review_id, photo_url)
          VALUES ($1, unnest(array[${arrayParams}]))
          RETURNING id`,
        values: [reviewId, ...photoURLs],
      }
    );
  },
  ```