# Insert Queries Continued 09/21/19

## Overview
Goal is to make an insert statement for characteristic reviews. The data is formatted as an object with the key being a the characteristic id and the value being the rating.

e.g. {"14": 4} translates to characteristic with id of 14 was rated as a 4
In plain english this might look like "Size of this product is 4 out of 5 in terms of a perfect fit".

## Problems
- I don't have a set number of characteristics to expect (could be zero, could be 7)
- I need to figure out a way to translate a variable number of parameters from an object and maintain the relation of id to rating

## Eureka Moment... Maybe?
Object.entries transforms my objects into key pairs like so:
 {"14": 2, "15": 7} -> [["14", 2], ["15", 7]]
 This is closer to what I need, but now I have nested arrays
FLATTEN!

## Dynamic Query Issues
I tried to use the same logic I had for photos where I used Postgres to unnest the array of urls.
I cannot for the life of me figure out the correct syntax and I'm repeatedly getting errors about having more arguments than expressions.

I wanted to maintain having the actual query text and query values seperated because I'm reading it is safer and prevents SQL injection.

## Eventual Solution
After several failed attempts, some investigation into PL/PSQL regarding dynamic queries, attempting to use a pg-format package and then realizing it hasn't been updated in three years... I conceeded to building out the query values for characteristics using javascript and inserting the text directly into the query. I don't think this is best practice, but it works.

```js
  insertCharacteristicReview: (reviewId, characteristics) => {
    const flatCharacteristics = buildValues(reviewId, Object.entries(characteristics))
      .map((value) => `(${value.join()})`)
      .join();
    return (
      {
        text: `INSERT INTO characteristics_review (review_id, characteristic_id, review_value)
          VALUES ${flatCharacteristics}
          RETURNING id`,
        values: [],
      }
    );
  },

```